.TH @CONFIGFILE@ 5 2014\-06\-09 @PACKAGE_STRING@


.SH NAME

\fB@CONFIGFILE@\fR \- Configuration file for \fB@PROGRAM_NAME@\fR


.SH DESCRIPTION

There is a system wide configuration file \fI@SYS_CONF_DIR@/@CONFIGFILE@\fR
and user configuration files \fI~/.@PACKAGE@/@CONFIGFILE@\fR. When
\fB@PROGRAM_NAME@\fR is invoked by root, only the system wide configuration
file is read. When invoked by an ordinary user, the user configuration file
is read in addition. Settings from the user configuration file will take
precedence over the system wide configuration.

.PP
The configuration file consists of lines where each line contains a keyword
value pair. Keyword and value are seperated by spaces and/or tabs.

.PP
The file may contain sections that are for one specific mount point only.
Such a section starts with a line, that contains the full path of the mount
point enclosed in square brackets. The section ends at the start of the next
section or the end of file. Options that shall apply to all mounted file
system must come before the first sections. Options given in a mount specific
section will have precedence.


.SH EXAMPLE

kernel_fs coda
.br
proxy	foo.bar:8080
.br
use_locks 0
.br
.br
[/media/dav]
.br
use_locks 1
.br
.br
[/home/otto/mywebspace]
.br
gui_optimize 1

.PP
All mounted @PACKAGE@ file systems will use the coda kernel file system and the
proxy foo.bar. All @PACKAGE@ file systems expect /media/dav will disable the
use of the locks. /home/otto/mywebspace will use the gui_optimize option.

.SH GENERAL SYNTAX RULES

Lines that only contain spaces and tabs (empty lines) are ignored.

.PP
# indicates a comment. The rest of the line is ignored.

.PP
\(rs is the escape character.

.PP
\(dq" is used for quotation.

.PP
If a value contains one of the special characters space, tab, #, \(rs, or \(dq,
this character must be escaped by a preceding \(rs. Use \(cq\(rs\ \(cq instead
of \(cq\ \(cq, \(cq\(rs#\(cq instead of \(cq#\(cq, \(cq\(rs\(rs\(cq instead of
\(cq\(rs\(cq and \(cq\(rs\(dq\(cq instead of \(cq\(dq\(cq.

.PP
Values containing spaces, tabs or # may instead be enclosed in double quotes.
But \(dq and \(cq must be escaped even within double quotes. If the starting line
of a section is enclosed in double quotes, the square brakets must be within
the quotes (like \(dq[/home/otto/with space]\(dq).

.PP
Boolean option values (yes/no) must be given as numerical value.
0 for no, 1 for yes.


.SH AVAILABLE CONFIGURATION OPTIONS

.SH General Options

.TP
.B dav_user
When invoked by root the \fB@PROGRAM_NAME@\fR daemon will run as this user.
Value must be given as \fIname\fP, \fBnot\fR as numerical id.
.br
Default: @USER@
.br
\fBOnly allowed in the system wide configuration file.\fR

.TP
.B dav_group
The group of the running \fB@PROGRAM_NAME@\fR daemon. Ordinary users must
be member of this group in order to mount a @PACKAGE@ file system.
Value must be given as \fIname\fP, \fBnot\fR as numerical id.
.br
Default: @GROUP@
.br
\fBOnly allowed in the system wide configuration file.\fR

.TP
.B kernel_fs
Which kernel file system to use, to integrate into the virtual file system.
Possible values are \fIfuse\fP and \fIcoda\fP.
.br
Default: fuse

.TP
.B buf_size
Size in KiByte of the buffer used to communicate with the kernel file system.
Only usefull with \fIfuse\fP, where read and write operations may profit
from a larger buffer.
.br
Default: 16


.SH WebDAV Related Options

.TP
.B use_proxy
Whether to use a proxy to connect to the WebDAV server. 0 = no, 1 = yes.
If no proxy is defined in the configration file or the environment variables
\fBhttps_proxy\fR, \fBhttp_proxy\fR and \fBall_proxy\fR, this option has no
effect. 
.br
Default: 1
.br
\fBOnly allowed in the system wide configuration file.\fR

.TP
.B proxy
Name of the proxy. The name must be the fully qualified domain name
(no scheme). If the proxy port differs from the default of 8080, it
must be appended, seperated by a colon. Examples: \fIfoo.bar:1704\fP or
\fIfoo.bar\fP
.br
\fBOnly allowed in the system wide configuration file.\fR

.TP
.B trust_ca_cert
Name of a certificate file in PEM format. The name of the file may be
given as absolute path or as file name only. In the latter case the
directories \fI~/.@PACKAGE@/@CERTS_DIR@\fP and
\fI@SYS_CONF_DIR@/@CERTS_DIR@\fP will be searched.
.br
This option is useful when the certificate presented by the server
cannot be verified using the system's data base of trusted certificate
authorities (CA). The certificate file must contain the self-signed
certificate of the top level CA in the chain of trust. It may be a
self-signed server certificate (but see also \fBtrust_server_cert\fR).
With this option the system's CA data base is ignored.
.br
\fBNote:\fR Even if the server's certificate is trusted that does not mean
it is accepted. Additionally the certificate's date must be valid and
either the CommonName or the SubjectAltName must match the host name
of the server.

.TP
.B servercert
Same as \fBtrust_ca_cert\fR but badly named.
.br
\fBDeprecated\fR

.TP
.B trust_server_cert
Name of a certificate file in PEM format. The name of the file may be
given as absolute path or as file name only. In the latter case the
directories \fI~/.@PACKAGE@/@CERTS_DIR@\fP and
\fI@SYS_CONF_DIR@/@CERTS_DIR@\fP will be searched.
.br
Usefull when the server's certificate can't be verified or is even invalid,
but \fByou know\fR that you can trust this certificate.
When the server presents a certificate that is exactly equal to this one
and when the server is able to authenticate against the public key contained
in this certificate the connection will be established.
.br
This is the preferred option for self signed server certificates.
.br
No other ways to verify the certificate will be tried and the certificate
will not be checked for validity.

.TP
.B clientcert
Name of a certificate in PKCS#12 format that will be used to authenticate
with the server. The name of the file may be given as absolute path or as
file name only. In the latter case the directories
\fI~/.@PACKAGE@/@CERTS_DIR@/@CLICERTS_DIR@\fP and
\fI@SYS_CONF_DIR@/@CERTS_DIR@/@CLICERTS_DIR@\fP will be searched.

.TP
.B secrets
Name of a file that holds the credentials for servers and the proxy, and
passwords to decrypt the client certificate. The name must be an absolute
path. The file must be read and writable by the owner only (mode 600).
.br
Default: ~/.@PACKAGE@/@SECRETSFILE@
.br
\fBOnly allowed in the user configuration file.\fR The system wide
secrets file is allways \fI@SYS_CONF_DIR@/@SECRETSFILE@\fP.

.TP
.B ask_auth
Ask the user interactively for credentials and passwords if not found in the
secretsfile. Ask the user if a servercert cannot be verified. 0 = no, 1 = yes.
.br
Default: 1

.TP
.B use_locks
Whether to lock files on the server when they are opened for writing.
0 = no, 1 = yes.
.br
Default: 1

.TP
.B lock_owner
A string send to the server to identify the owner of a lock. If a WebDAV
resource is used at the same time by different clients using the same
credentials, different values for lock_owner should be choosen.
.br
Default: the username from the credentials

.TP
.B lock_timeout
How long in seconds locks should be valid, before the server removes them.
The server may ignore this and set its own timeout value.
.br
Default: 1800

.TP
.B lock_refresh
That many seconds before the lock times out, \fB@PROGRAM_NAME@\fR will try to
refresh the lock. The value should be substantially greater than
\fBdelay_upload\fR.
.br
Default: 60

.TP
.B use_expect100
To avoid  uploading big files that will be refused by the server,
\fB@PROGRAM_NAME@\fR uses the header \fIexpect: 100\-continue\fP to get the o.k.
from the server before uploading. Not all servers understand this.
0 = no, 1 = yes.
.br
Default: 0

.TP
.B if_match_bug
Some servers do not handle If-Match and If-None-Match-headers correctly.
This otion tells \fB@PROGRAM_NAME@\fR to use HEAD instead of thes headers.
0 = no, 1 = yes.
.br
Default: 0

.TP
.B drop_weak_etags
Popular servers send a weak etag whenever they are not able to calculate
a strong one. This weak etag will never be valid, but after one second it
is silently turned into a strong, valid etag. With this flag set to 1,
\fB@PROGRAM_NAME@\fR will never use this weak etags. If the flag is 0,
the weakness indicator will be removed and the etag is assumed to be
strong. There is some danger of the Lost-Update-Problem with
this. But it is minimized when using locks.
.br
You should turn this on, when you can't use locks and there is the
danger of concurrent access to the same resource. In this case the
etag is not used at all and the resource cannot be cached.
.br
0 = no, 1 = yes.
.br
Default: 0

.TP
.B n_cookies
Some servers will only work when they are allowed to set a cookie and this
cookie is returned in subsequent requests. This option sets the number of
cookies you are willing to accept and include in subsequent requests. davfs2
will only care for the name and the value of the cookie and ignore all of
the possible attributes.
.br
Default: 0

.TP
.B precheck
If option \fBif_match_bug\fR is set: use HEAD-requests to check for existence
or modification of a file to avoid unintended overwriting what somebody
else changed. Has no effect if option \fBif_match_bug\fR is 0. You should only
set it 0, if there is no concurrent access to the server.
0 = no, 1 = yes.
.br
Default: 1

.TP
.B ignore_dav_header
Some servers send wrong information about their capabilities in the DAV-header.
In this case the header should be ignored.
.br
Default: 0

.TP
.B use_compression
Use gzip-compression for downloading files, if supported by the server.
Uploads will still be uncompressed.
.br
Default: 0

.TP
.B min_propset
Some servers are reported to significantly slow down when the Etag and
Last-Modified properties are requested. This option will reduce the set of
WebDAV-properties requested from the server to the minimal set. Don't use it if
your file system is used for reading and writing. Without Etag or Last-Modified
davfs2 will not be able to check for changes on the server which may result
in unnecessary downloads and lost updates. This option will also effectively
disable caching of files because files in the cache can't be reused.
.br
Default: 0

.TP
.B follow_redirect
If the server redirects a GET-request to a different resource (maybe on
a different server) then follow this redirection.
.br
Currently there are some restrictions: all redirects are treated as
temporary redirects; if the new server requires authentication then the
same credentials are use as for the original server; if the connection
is over TLS the server certificate will be checked against the trusted
CAs known by the system; user configured server certificates and client
certificates are not used for the new server.
.br
Default: 0

.TP
.B server_charset
When extracting file names from the path component of the URL,
\fB@PROGRAM_NAME@\fR will assume they are encoded using this character set
and translate file names to the local character set. This is \fBnot\fR
about encoding of file contents and \fBnot\fR about HTTP escaping rules.
.br
There is no means in HTTP to know the character encoding of the path
component. There may be even different encodings within the same path, as
the encoding of file names is often defined by the clients that created them.
Nowadays it is best to use only UTF\-8 encoding and to do no conversion. If
you are not sure that all clients understand UTF\-8, restrict file names to
pure us\-ascii. Never use characters in file names, that may have a special
function on some operating systems (like /, : and \(rs).
.br
Default: no character set conversion

.TP
.B connect_timeout
When creating a TCP connection to the server \fB@PROGRAM_NAME@\fR will
wait that many seconds for an answer before assuming an error. If a value
of '0' is used then no explicit timeout handling is set and the connect call
will only timeout as dictated by the TCP stack.
.br
This parameter only takes effect if the version of neon in use
(neon version > 0.26) and the OS support non-blocking I/O.
.br
Default: 10

.TP
.B read_timeout
How long in seconds \fB@PROGRAM_NAME@\fR will wait for an answer from the
server before assuming an error.
.br
Default: 30

.TP
.B retry
When \fB@PROGRAM_NAME@\fR can not reach the server it will try again after
\fBretry\fR seconds. For subsequent retries the interval will be increased
up to \fBmax_retry\fR seconds.
.br
Default: 30

.TP
.B max_retry
Maximum value of the retry interval.
.br
Default: 300

.TP
.B max_upload_attempts
When uploading a changed file fails temporarily \fB@PROGRAM_NAME@\fR will
retry with increasing intervals, but not more often than this.
.br
With a bad connection this will cause additional traffic. To reduce
traffic caused by unsuccessful attempts option \fBuse_expect100\fR can be
set. But please test it. Most proxies and some servers don't support this
header.
.br
Default: 15

.TP
.B add_header
Your server might expect special headers to do what you want. Different from
other options, this one takes two values: the name of the header and its value.
Some ASP-backends to IIS seem to require the Microsoft specific header
"Translate: F". You can add it like this: 
.br
add_header Translate F
.br
\fB@PROGRAM_NAME@\fR will add header "Translate: F" on all requests.
.br
This option is cumulative. You can enter more than one add_header option
and all of them will be added. Also add_header options from
@SYS_CONF_DIR@/@CONFIGFILE@ and ~/.@PACKAGE@/@CONFIGFILE@ are merged.


.SH Cache Related Options

.TP
.B backup_dir
Each mounted @PACKAGE@ file system has a directory to store backups of files
that could not be stored back to the server. This sets the name of this
directory. You should regularly check this directory.
.br
Default: lost+found

.TP
.B cache_dir
The directory where \fB@PROGRAM_NAME@\fR will store cached files. For every
mount point a subdirectory will be created.
.br
In the systemwide configuration file this will set the system wide cache,
used by root. In a users configuration file it will set the cache used by
this user.
.br
Defaults: @SYS_CACHE_DIR@ and ~/.@PACKAGE@/cache

.TP
.B cache_size
The amount of disk space in MiByte that may be used. \fB@PROGRAM_NAME@\fR
will always take enough space to cache open files, ignoring this value if
necessary.
.br
Default: 50

.TP
.B table_size
\fB@PROGRAM_NAME@\fR maintains a hash table with an entry for each known file
or directory. This gives the number of entries in this table. For large
file systems (more than some hundreds of files) increasing this number may
speed up file operations. The value should be a power of 2.
.br
Default: 1024

.TP
.B dir_refresh
After \fB@PROGRAM_NAME@\fR has got information about files in a directory it
considers it valid for this time in seconds. Note: This does not affect
opening of files and reading a directory by an application.
.br
Default: 60

.TP
.B file_refresh
When a file or directory is opened by an application, \fB@PROGRAM_NAME@\fR
will first check the server for a newer version. But some applications do
open calls on the same file in short sequence. To avoid unecessary traffic
\fB@PROGRAM_NAME@\fR will wait that many seconds before it send a new request
for the same information.
.br
Default: 1

.TP
.B delay_upload
When a file that has been changed is closed, \fB@PROGRAM_NAME@\fR will wait
that many seconds before it will upload it to the server. This will avoid
uploading of temporary files that will be removed immediately after closing.
If you need the files to appear on the server immediately after closing,
set this option to 0.
.br
Default: 10

.TP
.B gui_optimize
When a file is opened, \fB@PROGRAM_NAME@\fR will have to check the server
whether there is a newer version. Graphical User Interfaces tend to open
just any file, slowing down things dramatically for large directories.
With this option \fB@PROGRAM_NAME@\fR will try to get this information
from all files in a directory with one PROPFIND request. 0 = no, 1 = yes.
.br
Default: 0

.TP
.B minimize_mem
davfs2 holds information about files and directories in the working
memory. It will stay there as long as the file system is mounted and the 
file is not deleted. By this memory usage by davfs2 will grow over time
and may slow down davfs2. With this option set to 1 davfs2 will regularly
clean the memory from information that has not be used for some time.
0 = no, 1 = yes.
.br
\fBWarning:\fR Most file attributes are only maintained locally because
there is no corresponding WebDAV property. So if users change attributes
(owner, group, access bits) locally this changes will be lost and
attribute values will be reset to the default values.
.br
Default: 0


.SH Debugging Options

.TP
.B debug
Send debug messages to the syslog daemon. The value tells what kind of
information shall be logged. The messages are send with facility LOG_DAEMON
and priority LOG_DEBUG. It depends from the configuration of the syslog daemon
where the messages will go (propably /var/log/messages, /var/log/syslog or
/var/log/daemon.log). Whether HTTP related debug messages are available
depends on your neon library.
.br
Unlike other options, this option is cumulative. If there are several debug
entries with different values, all of them will be applied. Also debug options
from @SYS_CONF_DIR@/@CONFIGFILE@ and ~/.@PACKAGE@/@CONFIGFILE@ are merged.
.br
\fBNote:\fR Debug messages let the log-files grow quickly. Never use this
option in normal operation of mount.davfs.
.br
Default: no debugging messages
.RS
.TP
.B Recognized values:
.TP
.B config
Command line and configuration options.
.TP
.B kernel
Upcalls from the kernel file system.
.TP
.B cache
Cache operations like adding and removing nodes.
.TP
.B http
HTTP headers.
.TP
.B xml
Parsing of the XML-body of WebDAV-requests.
.TP
.B httpauth
Negotiation of authentication.
.TP
.B locks
Information about locks.
.TP
.B ssl
TLS/SSL related stuff like certificates.
.TP
.B httpbody
Complete body of HTTP-responses.
.TP
.B secrets
Also print confidential information, which is usually omitted or obscured.
.TP
.B most
Includes config, kernel, cache and http.
.RE


.SH AUTHORS

This man page was written by by Werner Baumann
<werner.baumann@onlinehome.de>.


.SH DAVFS2 HOME

@PACKAGE_BUGREPORT@


.SH SEE ALSO

.BR @PROGRAM_NAME@ (8),
.BR u@PROGRAM_NAME@ (8),
.BR mount (8),
.BR umount (8),
.BR fstab (5)
