.TH u@PROGRAM_NAME@ 8 "2014-08-23" @PACKAGE_STRING@

.SH NAME

u@PROGRAM_NAME@ \- Umount-helper to unmount a @PACKAGE@ file system


.SH SYNOPSIS

.B u@PROGRAM_NAME@ [-h | --help] [-V | --version]
.br
.BI "umount " dir


.SH SYNOPSIS (root only)

.BI "u@PROGRAM_NAME@ " dir


.SH DESCRIPTION

\fBu@PROGRAM_NAME@\fR is a umount helper program. It is called by the
\fBumount\fR(8) command. Its purpose is to prevent the umount command
from returning unless \fB@PROGRAM_NAME@\fR has synchronized all its
cached files with the webdav server.

.PP
\fIdir\fP is the mountpoint where the WebDAV resource is mounted on.
It may be an absolute or relative path.

.PP
While for local file systems \fBumount\fR(8) will only return when all
cached data have been written to disk, this is not automatically true
for a mounted \fB@PACKAGE@\fR file system. With this umount helper the
user can rely on the familiar behaviour of \fBumount\fR(8). To inform
the operating system that the file system uses a network connection,
you should always use the \fB_netdev\fR option, when mounting as
\fB@PACKAGE@\fR file system.

.PP
Depending on the amount of data and the quality of the connection, unmounting
a \fB@PACKAGE@\fR file system may take some seconds up to some hours.

.PP
If the \fB@PROGRAM_NAME@\fR daemon encountered serious errors,
\fBu@PROGRAM_NAME@\fR may return an error instead of unmounting the file
system. In this case try \fBumount -i\fR. The \fB-i\fR option will prevent
\fBumount\fR(8) from calling \fBu@PROGRAM_NAME@\fR.


.SH OPTIONS

.TP
.B -V --version
Output version.

.TP
.B -h --help
Print a help message.

.TP
.B -f -l -n -r -v -t
This options are \fBignored\fR. They are only recognized for compatibility
with \fBumount\fR(8).


.SH FILES

.TP
.I @SYS_RUN@
PID-files of running \fBu@PROGRAM_NAME@\fR processes are looked up here.


.SH BUGS

No known bugs.


.SH AUTHORS

This man page was written by Werner Baumann <werner.baumann@onlinehome.de>.


.SH DAVFS2 HOME

@PACKAGE_BUGREPORT@


.SH SEE ALSO

.BR @PROGRAM_NAME@ (8),
.BR umount (8),
.BR @CONFIGFILE@ (5),
.BR fstab (5)
